In the last section we started recreating our log and form mostly from scratch so we can see some inputs
and buttons on the form.
But there is absolutely no logic behind them right now nothing to actually log the user in.
So in this section when you start to focus more on making the slogging form work nicely with redux.
So give me the part where if anything about redox is still a little bit hazy This is where I'm going
to start to just really hammer it into your head as best I can.
The process that we're about to go through here of making a form that works well with redux we're going
to repeat once again in this application.
So the first time if it doesn't still make sense we're going to have another shot at it later on in
this application.
So again just going to keep hammering in the same topics over and over again to make sure they are crystal
clear.
So let's talk about exactly how this form is going to work with redux.
So this diagram here is the interaction between react and redux.
It's like the full story.
This is the entire flow.
So we start off at the top left up here.
We're going to have an input on the screen and the user is going to type something.
Now previously we had an event handler on that input and we said OK yeah you know a user just typed
something in.
Let's take that new value Let's set our state and yeah you know what that's that's all we need to worry
about.
So this time around.
Now that reason redux things are going to be very similar are very similar but a little bit more complicated
at the same time just because we're involving redux as well.
So when the user types something instead of immediately calling set state and saving that that news
value as component level state we're going to instead call an action creator with this new text remember
action creator is how we invoke some change in site or application you can loosely think of an action
creator.
Not entirely unlike a call to set state or not people will and I would get whipped first saying that
by by some folks.
But I'm going to make the claim vaguely similar to calling set stay.
I'm just going to say this action creator will create an action with the new text in a very specific
action type.
Right.
So that's our action the action creator makes an action that action is sent to all the different reducers
in our application.
Each producer will calculate a new application state for that and like you know a very particular slice
of state for that very particular reducer redux is going to take the output from each producer that
we have.
It's going to formit up into a single object which we kind of Clovelly refer to as.
It's going to send that off to all the different components all of the components will be rendered with
new news say area all of our compulsory render with the new state.
And then we just sit back and wait for the changes.
We wait for the user to type another character in which case we repeat the entire process all over again.
So this is the flow that we're going to go through every single time that a user typed something into
our form before it was just ok.
User types something called Set state and then in the render method we refer to we passed the value
of the input as that piece of state you know start States on email or the start state but pass or whatever
it might might have been.
But now that we're using redux we wait for these types something we update our application level States
we pass that application level state back into the component and we tell the label or me the import
like here is your value.
And then we sit back and wait for the new change again.
So very similar flow that we had before.
As far as handling text input the differences we're handling it at the state the application state level.
Now if you if you weren't saying this before I really bet you're saying it's now Stephen.
Oh my god why why are we doing this.
Why do we have to do is like five steps because you're like like what.
What I'm telling you right now is that we're going to make an action creator to handle text updates.
We're going to make a reducer that's going to handle whatever you know the user is typing and they're
going to have to make a map state to proper function to pass that state back to the component.
So I am I am saying here that we're going to do like you know probably three or four times as much code
as just doing that single set state call that like that is what I'm saying here.
And so you're probably thinking why would we do that.
This seems so over-the-top complicated.
And my response was Well you know yeah like for this very simple case we're doing here for just like
a simple text input.
Yes it is quite complicated but you know it as we start to get really complex forms like the key part
as we start to get really complex forms like say a wizard type form like a multi-page wizard right orientation
we have to do a lot of validation where in time we have to like take some user input and then do like
maybe an Ajax request to validate that.
You know it's a valid user name or something like that.
Any time that we want to start introducing complexity here this approach is going to be a lot easier
for adding complexity on as opposed to that single set state call.
All right.
So that is why we're doing this it is because even though this makes things a little bit more challenging
for our simple applications for complex applications this makes life a lot easier.
All right.
And so you know as you're starting to use react and redux on your personal projects I got to tell you
you want to reach to reach for reaction redux when you're working on a complicated project that is when
you want to reach for these frameworks.
Okay anyways.
Enough soapboxing for a little bit.
Maybe I can stop lecturing for two minutes so we can write some actual code.
Really it started with step one of that form which is watching for user type something and when they
do we want to call an action creator because that's our goal right now.
I want to watch for user type something and when they type something I want to call an action creator.
So we know how to watch for a user type something we can pass the input tag a onchange text event handler.
So we're going to pass on change text a callback of this dot on email change and because it is a callback
where we are going to make reference to this I'm going to bind the context over here.
So then we'll add that in that handler and as a method.
So on email change and this will be called with the new text.
OK.
So I'd just be really clear here.
You know I said our components are going be so stupid they're not going to have any logic at all.
And that's totally true.
I getting a lot of logic but we still do have to write this like glue code these event handlers.
Now I could write like you know just pass a fat or a function directly to this prop here for this first
component we're working on.
I'm going to just start off with a separate helper function just to keep things nice and clear keep
the GSX in here like very clear.
Then inside if we're going to want to call an action creator so that we can update our application level
state with the new value that the user has typed in because that's our goal we don't have any action
creators yet.
So we're going to make a new folder for our action creators and we're going to just kind of scaffold
out and action right now.
So inside my source directory going to make a new folder called actions and then inside of there we
will make a new file called index dot.
J.S. and finally inside of this file we'll make a new action creator or say expert Konst email changed
the single will be the some amount of text and whenever it gets called I want to return an action remember
an action is a plain javascript object.
It always has a type property which is going to be a string.
I'm going to make it just email changed and we'll give it a payload of text because we want to communicate
the new text that was provided.
Again I do have a little bit that yes lint here from unexpected block statement.
I mean you said you know I'm really getting tired of this error here because we're really not respecting
this one.
And I you know this would really be well suited for having the more compact syntax but I feel like an
editorial I like having that kind of longer form so in the next section I can show you how to turn this
message off if you want disable it.
But let's stay on track right now.
So we just created our action creator.
We can now import it back into this file and then we will import the connect helper in wired up as an
action creator to the component.
So let's take care of that in the next section.